# HAVCV
Hardware Accelerated Vibrometer based on Computer Vision. Normally, a vibrometer is an instrument that reflects the surface stress distribution by detecting the surface vibration. It is usually utilized for evaluating the mechanical defection of a surface. The first version

HAVCV is written in C, utilizing the OpenCV 4 libraries. **Noting that the cpp file should be compiled after one deploys OpenCV 4 correctly**. _An Nvidia Jetson platform is recommended for built-in hardware acceleration, and the program was originally tested using Qt Creator 5.12.0 on Nvidia Jetson Nano 2GB with an 8MP camera that is able to retrieve video frames in 720@60fps and 480p@120fps_.

[Reference Paper](http://sstl.cee.illinois.edu/papers/aeseancrisst15/248_Lee_Monocular.pdf)

HAVCV use feature recognition which automatically detects ROIs.

**How HAVCV Works**

HAVCV utilizes monocular vision to detect and measure vibration. A specially designed marker is covered on an area of the surface to be measured. The marker consists of a white background and four red circles. HAVCV first frames the four circles on the marker as four ROIs through color features, and calculates the pixel coordinates of the centers of them, namely the marker center. The marker is usually printed on a fixed size paper, so the world coordinates of the center of the four ROIs on the mark on the paper can be measured directly with just a ruler. Now, we obtain two sets of coordinates, namely, the four pixel coordinates calculated in real time through feature detection in the video frame, and the four world coordinates measured on the paper where the marker is located with a ruler in reality. Through these two sets of coordinates, the scale mapping relationship, that is, homography matrix, can be obtained. Remember the coordinates of the marker center calculated by using the circle centers of the four ROIs in the video frame? We actually only care about the real-time moving distance of that point. However, note that the distance calculated in real time through the video frame is the pixel distance, and what we finally need is the actual moving distance in millimeters, centimeters or meters. Because the program has been calculating the homography matrix in real time, that is, we always know the mapping relationship between real-time pixel coordinates and world coordinates. Therefore, with simple matrix operation, we can get the real-time moving distance of the marking center in the real world.
